docs/writing-style-guide.md, before:

To maintain a consistent language and style across our documentation, we use these guidelines. We value your content over strict adherence to formatting rules, so don't worry about mastering the entire style guide before you contribute. However, expect that other contributors might edit your work to match this guide. When you submit a content pull request, reviewers may refer you to these guidelines.

## Consider the Three Cs of Writing

The three Cs of good writing are writing clearly, concisely, and consistently.

- **Clear:** Ensure that your writing is clear and simple. Use active voice and unambiguous pronouns. Write short sentences, sticking to one idea per sentence. Define new terms before using them.
- **Concise:** Avoid excessive detail. Keep your writing succinct and to the point.
- **Consistent:** Use the same verbiage consistently throughout the page and across multiple pages.


## Writing Style

- **Be clear and concise:**
  - **Incorrect:** Due to the fact that...
  - **Correct:** Because...

- **Use active voice:**
  - **Incorrect:** The file is created by the user.
  - **Correct:** The user creates the file.

- **Be consistent:**
  - Use the same terminology and style throughout your documentation to avoid confusion.


## Content Structure

- **Provide a Descriptive Introduction:**
  - Ensure the opening paragraph(s) before the first heading summarizes the information covered and what readers can achieve. This helps readers determine if the page is relevant to them.

- **Headings:** Use headings to organize content, starting with the most important information.
  - **Incorrect:** `<h3>Creating a File</h3>`
  - **Correct:** `<h1>Creating a File</h1>`

- **Lists:** Use bullet points or numbered lists for easy scanning.
  - **Incorrect:** First do this. Second do that.
  - **Correct:**
    1. Do this.
    2. Do that.

- **Code examples:** Provide clear and concise code examples with comments.
  - **Incorrect:**
    ```python
    print("Hello, World!")
    ```
  - **Correct:**
    ```python
    # Print a welcome message
    print("Hello, World!")
    ```

## Formatting

- **Bold:** Use bold for UI elements, important terms, and first occurrences of new terms.
  - **Incorrect:** Click on **Submit** button.
  - **Correct:** Click on the **Submit** button.

- **Italics:** Use italics for emphasis and book titles.
  - **Incorrect:** This is *very* important.
  - **Correct:** This is *very* important.

## Tone and Voice

- **Friendly and professional:** Be approachable and professional.
  - **Incorrect:** Hey guys, let’s dive into coding!
  - **Correct:** Let’s explore how to code.

- **Encouraging:** Highlight what users can achieve.
  - **Incorrect:** This might be difficult to understand.
  - **Correct:** You can master this with practice.

- **Respectful:** Use gender-neutral language.
  - **Incorrect:** When a user updates his profile...
  - **Correct:** When a user updates their profile...

## Abbreviations and Acronyms

- **Expansions:** Expand acronyms on first mention. Link to related articles or glossary entries when possible.
  - **Correct:** "XUL (XML User Interface Language) is Mozilla's XML-based language..."
  - **Incorrect:** "XUL is Mozilla's XML-based language..."

- **Capitalization and Periods:** Use full capitals and delete periods in all abbreviations and acronyms.
  - **Correct:** XUL
  - **Incorrect:** X.U.L.; Xul

- **Latin Abbreviations:** Use common Latin abbreviations in parenthetical expressions and notes. Use periods in these abbreviations.
  - **Correct:** Web browsers (e.g., Firefox) can be used ...
  - **Incorrect:** Web browsers e.g. Firefox can be used ...

- **Regular Text:** Use the English equivalent of the abbreviation outside of notes or parentheses.
  - **Correct:** ... web browsers, and so on.
  - **Incorrect:** ... web browsers, etc.

- **Plurals of Abbreviations and Acronyms:** Add "s" without an apostrophe.
  - **Correct:** CD-ROMs
  - **Incorrect:** CD-ROM's

- **"Versus", "vs.", and "v.":** Use "vs." in headings and "versus" in regular text.
  - **Correct:** this vs. that
  - **Incorrect:** this v. that
  - **Correct:** this versus that

## Capitalization

- **Standard English Rules:** Use standard English capitalization rules in body text. Capitalize "World Wide Web" but use lowercase for "web" and "internet."
- **Keyboard Keys:** Use sentence-style capitalization for keyboard keys, except for "ESC."
  - **Correct:** Enter
  - **Incorrect:** ENTER
  - **Exception:** ESC

- **Specific Words:** Always capitalize trademarks and words derived from names.
  - **Examples:** Boolean, JavaScript, Python, TypeScript, Django

## Contractions

Our writing style is casual, so feel free to use contractions (e.g., "don't", "can't", "shouldn't").

## Numbers and Numerals

- **Commas:** Use commas only in five-digit and larger numbers.
  - **Correct:** 4000; 54,000
  - **Incorrect:** 4,000; 54000

- **Dates:** Use the format "January 1, 1900" for dates.
  - **Correct:** February 24, 1906
  - **Incorrect:** February 24th, 1906; 24 February, 1906; 24/02/1906

- **YYYY/MM/DD Format:** Alternately, use the YYYY/MM/DD format.
  - **Correct:** 1906/02/24
  - **Incorrect:** 02/24/1906; 24/02/1906; 02/24/06

- **Decades:** Use the format "1990s." Don't use an apostrophe.
  - **Correct:** 1920s
  - **Incorrect:** 1920's

- **Plurals of Numerals:** Add "s" without an apostrophe.
  - **Correct:** 486s
  - **Incorrect:** 486's

## Links and References

- **Descriptive Links:** Use descriptive text for links.
  - **Incorrect:** For more info, click here.
  - **Correct:** For more information, see the [documentation](#).

- **References:** Provide links to related content and additional resources.

## Visuals

- **Images and Diagrams:** Use visuals to clarify complex concepts.
- **Alt Text:** Provide descriptive alt text for all images.
  - **Incorrect:** ![Image](path/to/image.jpg)
  - **Correct:** ![Screenshot of the settings menu](path/to/image.jpg)

Commit message:

docs - add how to capitalize headings using APA style

docs/writing-style-guide.md, after:

# GoldenDog Linux Documentation Style Guide

To maintain a consistent language and style across our documentation, we use these guidelines. We value your content over strict adherence to formatting rules, so don't worry about mastering the entire style guide before you contribute. However, expect that other contributors might edit your work to match this guide. When you submit a content pull request, reviewers may refer you to these guidelines.

## Consider the Three Cs of Writing

The three Cs of good writing are writing clearly, concisely, and consistently.

- **Clear:** Ensure that your writing is clear and simple. Use active voice and unambiguous pronouns. Write short sentences, sticking to one idea per sentence. Define new terms before using them.
- **Concise:** Avoid excessive detail. Keep your writing succinct and to the point.
- **Consistent:** Use the same verbiage consistently throughout the page and across multiple pages.


## Writing Style

- **Be clear and concise:**
  - **Incorrect:** Due to the fact that...
  - **Correct:** Because...

- **Use active voice:**
  - **Incorrect:** The file is created by the user.
  - **Correct:** The user creates the file.

- **Be consistent:**
  - Use the same terminology and style throughout your documentation to avoid confusion.


## Content Structure

- **Provide a Descriptive Introduction:**
  - Ensure the opening paragraph(s) before the first heading summarizes the information covered and what readers can achieve. This helps readers determine if the page is relevant to them.

- **Headings:** Use headings to organize content, starting with the most important information. Use [this site](https://capitalizemytitle.com/style/APA/) to capitalize headings using APA style.

  - **Incorrect:** `<h3>Creating a File</h3>`
  - **Correct:** `<h1>Creating a File</h1>`

- **Lists:** Use bullet points or numbered lists for easy scanning.
  - **Incorrect:** First do this. Second do that.
  - **Correct:**
    1. Do this.
    2. Do that.

- **Code examples:** Provide clear and concise code examples with comments.
  - **Incorrect:**
    ```python
    print("Hello, World!")
    ```
  - **Correct:**
    ```python
    # Print a welcome message
    print("Hello, World!")
    ```

## Formatting

- **Bold:** Use bold for UI elements, important terms, and first occurrences of new terms.
  - **Incorrect:** Click on **Submit** button.
  - **Correct:** Click on the **Submit** button.

- **Italics:** Use italics for emphasis and book titles.
  - **Incorrect:** This is *very* important.
  - **Correct:** This is *very* important.

## Tone and Voice

- **Friendly and professional:** Be approachable and professional.
  - **Incorrect:** Hey guys, let’s dive into coding!
  - **Correct:** Let’s explore how to code.

- **Encouraging:** Highlight what users can achieve.
  - **Incorrect:** This might be difficult to understand.
  - **Correct:** You can master this with practice.

- **Respectful:** Use gender-neutral language.
  - **Incorrect:** When a user updates his profile...
  - **Correct:** When a user updates their profile...

## Abbreviations and Acronyms

- **Expansions:** Expand acronyms on first mention. Link to related articles or glossary entries when possible.
  - **Correct:** "XUL (XML User Interface Language) is Mozilla's XML-based language..."
  - **Incorrect:** "XUL is Mozilla's XML-based language..."

- **Capitalization and Periods:** Use full capitals and delete periods in all abbreviations and acronyms.
  - **Correct:** XUL
  - **Incorrect:** X.U.L.; Xul

- **Latin Abbreviations:** Use common Latin abbreviations in parenthetical expressions and notes. Use periods in these abbreviations.
  - **Correct:** Web browsers (e.g., Firefox) can be used ...
  - **Incorrect:** Web browsers e.g. Firefox can be used ...

- **Regular Text:** Use the English equivalent of the abbreviation outside of notes or parentheses.
  - **Correct:** ... web browsers, and so on.
  - **Incorrect:** ... web browsers, etc.

- **Plurals of Abbreviations and Acronyms:** Add "s" without an apostrophe.
  - **Correct:** CD-ROMs
  - **Incorrect:** CD-ROM's

- **"Versus", "vs.", and "v.":** Use "vs." in headings and "versus" in regular text.
  - **Correct:** this vs. that
  - **Incorrect:** this v. that
  - **Correct:** this versus that

## Capitalization

- **Standard English Rules:** Use standard English capitalization rules in body text. Capitalize "World Wide Web" but use lowercase for "web" and "internet."
- **Keyboard Keys:** Use sentence-style capitalization for keyboard keys, except for "ESC."
  - **Correct:** Enter
  - **Incorrect:** ENTER
  - **Exception:** ESC

- **Specific Words:** Always capitalize trademarks and words derived from names.
  - **Examples:** Boolean, JavaScript, Python, TypeScript, Django

## Contractions

Our writing style is casual, so feel free to use contractions (e.g., "don't", "can't", "shouldn't").

## Numbers and Numerals

- **Commas:** Use commas only in five-digit and larger numbers.
  - **Correct:** 4000; 54,000
  - **Incorrect:** 4,000; 54000

- **Dates:** Use the format "January 1, 1900" for dates.
  - **Correct:** February 24, 1906
  - **Incorrect:** February 24th, 1906; 24 February, 1906; 24/02/1906

- **YYYY/MM/DD Format:** Alternately, use the YYYY/MM/DD format.
  - **Correct:** 1906/02/24
  - **Incorrect:** 02/24/1906; 24/02/1906; 02/24/06

- **Decades:** Use the format "1990s." Don't use an apostrophe.
  - **Correct:** 1920s
  - **Incorrect:** 1920's

- **Plurals of Numerals:** Add "s" without an apostrophe.
  - **Correct:** 486s
  - **Incorrect:** 486's

## Links and References

- **Descriptive Links:** Use descriptive text for links.
  - **Incorrect:** For more info, click here.
  - **Correct:** For more information, see the [documentation](#).

- **References:** Provide links to related content and additional resources.

## Visuals

- **Images and Diagrams:** Use visuals to clarify complex concepts.
- **Alt Text:** Provide descriptive alt text for all images.
  - **Incorrect:** ![Image](path/to/image.jpg)
  - **Correct:** ![Screenshot of the settings menu](path/to/image.jpg)
